#**Interview Prep**

Use this guide as a resource for your job hunt. It covers basic
information, such as how to prepare for different stages of the
interview process. Note that the information is generalized, and you may
need to modify it to your specific situation or field.

##**Know your Resume!**

Candidates should also be prepared to speak to anyone about everything
they list on their resumes. Any tool or technology a candidate lists on
their resume is fair game for a recruiter or Interviewer to discuss. If
you cannot speak about your experience with a particular technology,
skill, technique, industry, etc., then don\'t put it on your resume.
When a candidate embellishes their resume, and it becomes apparent in an
interview, it destroys the candidate\'s professional credibility and
results in wasted time for the Interviewer and candidate. Additionally,
many candidates utilize various versions of their resume. To limit the
potential for misrepresenting your resume, make sure any stats,
outcomes, and technologies used in the multiple versions are
consistent. 

##**Come with Questions for the Interviewer**

Coming prepared with questions for your Interview isn\'t generally a
technique to \"test\" or evaluate you, but it often leaves an impression
of the candidate\'s engagement and professional interests. Asking
questions is also a great opportunity to acquire information on what the
role requires to be successful, the expectations of the Interviewer or
manager, and the characteristics of the organization, team, and manager.
Asking open-ended questions can be useful to improve the conversation
and gather information. All of the information you collect can be used
to position yourself better in the current Interview and any future
interviews. 

Candidates can create a professional and engaging dialogue when they
come prepared with questions about the role, team, organization, and
leadership. Think about the basic things that *you* are looking for in
your next job. Do you want to know about company culture? What is the
management style of your potential new manager? Do you want to know
about growth opportunities or how the company supports professional
growth? 

##**The Phone Screen / Initial Interview**

A phone screen is generally the first step in any interview process.
Typically, at this initial stage, candidates will talk to a recruiter or
someone from HR to make an initial determination about whether a
candidate meets the minimum qualifications for the position. Often,
these calls are centered around the requirements section of the job
description. This call will cover basic information and should also
touch on logistics (whether the job is onsite or remote, how quickly
they\'re trying to fill the job, and basic compensation alignment). At
the end of the phone screen, the recruiter should tell you about the
next steps and the interview process. If they don\'t, ask them what the
interview timeline looks like and when you can expect to hear about the
next steps. 

**Some standard questions you should be prepared to answer in the
initial Interview:**

-   Why are you interested in this role?

-   Why did you leave your previous job(s)?

-   Why are you looking to leave your current job?

-   What\'s your target compensation range?

-   Are you willing to relocate or be local to this job location?

-   What do you want to learn in your next job? (Professional Goals)

##**Second-Round Interviews**

The next steps in the process will start to deviate depending on the
company. In the Initial Interview, you should have gathered information
on the interview process and timeline. Generally, companies will have
the second round of interviews between the candidate and the hiring
manager, subject matter expert, or a senior member of the team. At this
stage, most companies will opt for a face-to-face interview, either
virtually or in person. Candidates can expect a second-round interview
to go more in-depth on their experience and how it fits in with the job.
Prepping for these interviews can greatly increase a candidate\'s
ability to successfully showcase their alignment with the role and
subsequently get hired. 

-   Think about the qualifications that you discussed with the recruiter
    on the initial call. Come prepared with examples of how your
    previous work meets those qualifications.

-   Look at the job description, especially the qualifications section.
    Same as above, be ready to share specific examples of how your
    previous work applies to those qualifications.

-   Look at similar job descriptions and professional profiles to
    understand job market demands for skills and information on
    competitors of the company you are applying for.

-   Be ready to discuss your current work in depth. Again, stressing the
    need to be able to speak to everything on your resume, the hiring
    manager will ask more pointed questions about your experience.

-   Use the STAR methods to structure your actions, your thought
    process, and the results of your actions. 

-   The second round of interviews is a great opportunity to ask
    about **what challenges someone in this role will face** or **what
    gaps the company is trying to fill with this role**. You will want
    to take this information and start thinking about how you can market
    your previous experience to show that you can meet those challenges
    or fill those gaps.

-   **If you are applying for a team lead, management, or any kind of
    supervisory position**, come prepared with examples of how you\'ve
    led a team. Be ready to talk about how you got your team out of a
    struggle, how you motivated or helped improve the performance of an
    underperforming employee, and how you handled an inter-team
    conflict.

##**Final Interviews**

The Final Interview tends to be the final step for most companies:
face-to-face meetings between yourself and a number of different team
members. Each company selects its interview panel in other ways, so
there\'s no surefire way to tell whom exactly you\'ll be meeting. If the
company doesn\'t send you an interview itinerary, you can always ask for
one that details who you\'ll be meeting with and what their title is. As
with the second Interview, you can expect that you\'ll be going in-depth
on your experience and how it aligns with the job. Often, at the final
round of interviews, companies will also share more information about
their culture and team organizational structure. 

-   Be prepared to answer many situation questions that are related to
    the job at hand. These questions will likely be related to
    challenges that you\'ll experience in the role (which is why you
    should ask about those challenges in first- or second-round
    interviews). 

-   The most common method for answering situational questions is the
    STAR method. 

-   Before the Interview, identify at least one major accomplishment you
    made in your 3 - 4 most recent jobs. Explain why you consider it a
    major accomplishment, what you learned from it, and how it made a
    positive impact on the business. Have those ready to talk about
    during the final Interview.

You will probably encounter some common behavioral questions as well. Be
prepared to answer things like:

-   Tell me about a time you disagreed with your boss and how you
    resolved it

-   Tell me about a time you had an argument with a co-worker and how
    that played out

-   Tell me about a time you were asked to do something that you knew
    was illegal/wrong and what you did

-   Tell me about a time you were behind on a deadline and how you
    handled it

##**The Star Method**

The STAR method (Situation, Task, Action, Result) is important for
responding to interview questions because it provides a structured
approach to presenting information clearly and effectively. By detailing
a specific Situation, the Task required, the Actions taken, and the
Results achieved, candidates can demonstrate their problem-solving
abilities, decision-making process, and impact on the organization. This
method helps interviewers understand the context of the candidate\'s
experiences and their direct contributions, making it easier to assess
the candidate\'s skills and fit for the role. Additionally, it ensures
that responses are focused and relevant, avoiding the risk of veering
off-topic or providing incomplete answers.

-   **Situation**: Give background information on the challenging
    the situation you were in.

-   **Task**: What did you need to achieve or fix in this scenario?

-   **Action**: Describe the steps you took to complete the task/solve
    the problem.

-   **Result**: How did the situation end/resolve?
